[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And
now, world renowned
spirit medium, James Van Praagh.
[APPLAUSE]
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hi, everyone.
Hey.
Hi.
How are you?
Thank you.
And thank you.
Thank you very
much for joining us
for another episode of
Spirit Talk, where I take you
one step closer to heaven.
Have you ever had that
feeling that you met somebody
that you've known them before.
There's an uncanny feeling
of I'm aware of this person.
I know them from the inside out.
Or perhaps you've been to a
certain place, certain city,
and you feel like you've
been there before.
Or you've had a deja vu feeling,
like you've had this experience
and I know what's
going to happen here.
Or maybe you've
heard these cases
where there are children who
speak to their parents and say,
mommy, in the last
life I was the father
and you were the child.
We've all heard of those.
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So this is what
we're calling reincarnation.
It's known as reincarnation.
And reincarnation has
been for, of course,
centuries and centuries
and centuries.
Reincarnation is
a belief that we
are souls-- we are soul
beings-- and we come back
in different lifetimes.
And the soul comes back into
the shell body, the human body,
and that's called incarnation.
Having an incarnation.
So we reincarnate.
We come back over, and over,
and over, and over again.
And it seems that
as soul beings, when
we get to the other side
of life, what happens
is we meet with our guides, we
meet with our spirit teachers,
our counselors,
and we really will
sit down and prepare
for another lifetime.
We will look in this
past life we just had
and review it and see
all the soul lessons
that we learned, whether
those lessons might have been
about forgiveness, or
compassion, or understanding.
Or maybe there was also
some karmic obligations
we had with another family
member, with a friend,
with a partner.
We all know about those, right?
It's like, what's going on here?
Jeez.
So we work these things
out in each lifetime.
So we'll sit with our
guides and teachers
and we'll really kind
of map out our agenda
for the next lifetime.
And we'll put ourselves
in various situations
and certain events
will happen in order
for us to really learn and
to grow and be involved
in that experience about
patience or about forgiveness
or about caring or
about loving yourself.
So reincarnation you perfect.
You get better and better and
you understand the lesson more
and more.
And I think the more
experiences we have,
the more evolved we become.
So when we come back in
the different lifetimes,
we will come back
with the same souls
that we've shared
other lifetimes with.
And just like Shakespeare
said, the world is a stage
and we're merely
players upon it.
So we do take on these
different, if you will,
characters.
In one lifetime
we'll be a mother.
we'll be the father.
Another time we'll be the child.
Another time we'll
be in a situation
where let's say we're adopted.
Another time we'll be
very, very wealthy.
Another time we'll
be very, very poor.
One lifetime we'll
be maybe Chinese.
One time we'll be African.
One time we'll be European.
It all depends.
It's all based on experiences.
So you will put
yourself-- your soul will
take on this appearance,
will take on this situation
that it needs to
go through in order
to learn the most
it can for itself.
So it's really, really
important to know that.
And people think
that, many times,
that it's linear--
you know, everything
is linear-- which it is.
This three dimensional
world is a linear world.
But when you are in the spirit
world, there is no time.
There's no such thing as time.
And when you are on
the other side of life
and you look at your
past life you just had,
you will begin to
see all of those
as if they're all
happening at the same time.
And the future lives, as well.
Not just past lives
but future lives.
I'm not an expert
in quantum physics,
but I will tell you this.
I know enough that your
soul right now that what you
create with your thoughts
and with your words
and with your
actions will really
help to perfect you
in this lifetime
and will help to,
if you will, correct
past experiences
in other lifetimes.
Now, isn't that interesting.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So in
this lifetime let's say
you're-- yeah.
You got it.
I can see a teacher around you.
Like a teacher spirit,
like a teacher energy.
Like I feel like-- here we
go-- I feel like with you
in a past life, you could have
been into teaching, academics,
understanding things, a writer.
All these like
working with words.
And I would know
that this lifetime,
you came back in this lifetime,
really to express yourself
with words.
And really it would be a
lifetime for you of expression.
Does that makes sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Absolutely.
Because I see that with
the colors around you.
And I know that your
soul chose this lifetime.
And it's so interesting,
because in this present time,
as I said, we are a summation
of all the other lifetimes.
So right now, you
are exactly what
you were in the past
in that everything
you are right now, you created
based upon your actions
from the past, your
thoughts from the past,
and what you did in the past.
So you can't blame
anybody else but yourself.
[LAUGHTER]
Isn't that interesting.
Yeah.
So like me, for instance,
so I'm a spiritual medium.
I know myself as far
as past lives goes,
that I was definitely
involved in mysticism
for many, many lifetimes.
I was a monk.
I was a priest, a monk,
a different priest.
I was a Tibetan monk.
I was all different
types of disciplines.
I really had to perfect and
work at and understand, and go
through, and express
in order, I believe,
to have that full understanding.
So in this current
lifetime I can come back
and do this work with spirit.
Interesting?
Isn't it?
It's just so interesting.
And this journey
of discovery I find
is so fascinating
of the soul and why
we do certain things, why
we like certain people, why
we don't like other people, why
we like certain places to live,
why we don't like
other places to live.
So it's all pretty interesting.
And I think the more
we go into that self
discovery of our souls, we
understand ourselves better.
Yes?
OK.
So what I'd like to
do with you today
is to do a past life regression.
Have any of you ever
done that before?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
I think it'll be very,
very interesting.
And as long as you don't think
so much and just experience
what happens and let
your soul speak to you.
And I will help you,
I will guide you
through a past life regression.
Very good.
OK.
So what I'm going to ask you
to do is close your eyes.
And you at home also,
you can close your eyes
and just listen to my voice
and the music behind it.
Very good.
It really is a matter of
where you place your mind.
And it's always great when we
do this type of soul work, which
is really what I
like to call it.
It's really going to place of
neutrality, being very neutral
and letting the mind
just drift-- just drift.
If you have a hard
time just drifting,
you can always come back
to the sound of my voice.
And I will be there to guide you
and protect you and help you.
So do not worry.
Nothing harmful.
It's actually very,
very healthy to do this.
And you're in good hands.
So as you sit in your
chairs-- and you at home sit
in your chairs or
lie down, that's
fine-- just be
mindful of the body.
Be aware of how the feet
feel on the floor, legs,
your backs on the chairs,
your shoulders and your arms,
your neck, your head.
And just be mindful of the
physical body, which is really
the storage for your
soul in this lifetime.
And just acknowledge that body
with an attitude of gratitude.
Attitude of gratitude.
I think it's very
important that you
send that message out to the
universe and spirit realms
that you are indeed are honored
to have this physical body
knowing this is an opportunity.
So as you sit in
your chairs there,
just be mindful
now of the breath.
The breath is a gift from God.
For with the breath,
it sustains our life.
So I'd like for you to imagine
as you inhale through our nose
a beautiful golden
light coming down
through the top of the head,
into the body, illuminating
every cell, every
muscle, and every organ.
And as you exhale
out of your mouth,
we can imagine a
gray mist, which
represents any old,
stagnant energy
of the body, any old
belief systems, any fears,
any limitations,
because we create
so much of that in this life.
So together let's bring in
that beautiful golden light
at the top of the head.
And that beautiful God light.
And inhale and hold it--
two, three, four, and exhale.
And let it go.
Grey mist out of your mouth.
Let it go.
Good.
And again.
And inhale.
And hold it-- two,
three, four, and exhale.
Let it go.
It's a great
opportunity for you.
Let it go.
Just let it go.
Just relax.
Listening to my
voice as I guide you.
And one more time.
There you go.
Now you're relaxing.
Envision this beautiful,
celestial golden light
entering the top of
the head into the body
and bathing the entire
interior of your body
with God's golden light.
And inhale.
Hold it-- two, three,
four, and exhale.
Let it go.
Great.
Good.
And now in your mind's eye,
staying in that very neutral
space, I would like
for you to imagine
that there is a screen above
your head in front of you.
Just find any way you
want to create that.
And on this screen there
are three distinct doors.
And you can create those
doors anyway you like.
They could be ornate.
They could be simple.
They could be any
design you like.
They could be the same, or
they could be different.
It's up to you.
You create them.
And when you feel
ready, I would like
for you to choose
a door to go in to.
And we go there and
we open the door.
And now go and open the door.
And inhale and exhale.
And as soon as you enter that
doorway, there are gray mists.
Clouds.
A gray mist.
And just go now in these vapors.
Just become aware that
you as a soul being
are standing in these vapors.
And you're descending down.
You're descending down.
Feeling going lower and
lower to the ground.
And soon you go back to
another existence, a past life.
Now you're back
on the earth and I
want you to look
down at your feet
and see what kind of shoes,
if any, you're wearing.
The footwear, if any.
Become mindful of the terrain.
Is it water?
Is it jungle?
Is it land?
Is it Earth?
What does it look like?
And now you look around
you and see the atmosphere
and the environment
that you're standing.
Is it a city environment?
Is it a country environment?
Is it an ancient environment?
What does it look like?
What does it feel
like as far as time?
Roughly what is the time?
Look down at the type of
dress that you're wearing,
the attire that you're
wearing, if any.
What kind of costume
we have on, if any.
What does it look
like and what does it
feel like in that lifetime?
Now you become very mindful of
people who come close to you
in that lifetime and become
aware of who they are.
There might be
some people who you
know in this current lifetime.
And just be mindful.
Who comes into your play?
Who comes into
that lifetime that
is significant to
you in that lifetime?
Who is significant to
What is your soul
learning in that lifetime?
What is the number
one major lesson
your soul is learning
in that lifetime?
Your soul will tell you.
And inhale.
And exhale.
We're going back, back, higher,
higher, higher in the realms.
Back into the realms.
Back into the realm
before the two doors now.
There are two doors
now before you.
And now your soul is going
to enter another time door.
So enter that time door.
Open it up.
See the vapors.
Inhale and exhale.
Now you're descending down.
Going down to the
earth or wherever
you're going to go
in that lifetime.
It doesn't necessarily
have to be the Earth,
it could be another
planet, another system.
It doesn't necessarily
have to be the Earth.
And as you go down,
look down at your feet
and see what kind of footwear,
if any, that you're wearing.
Be mindful of the terrain.
Is it country?
Is it a city environment?
Is it dry?
Is it water?
Just be mindful.
And then look around the
atmosphere, the environment
that you're in.
What does that look like?
Is there a time perhaps?
A date which you can place.
It's not important, but
if it feels right to you,
that's fine.
And then become aware in that
lifetime of different people
coming close to you
and the different roles
they play in that lifetime.
And be mindful of
how they affect
your soul in that lifetime.
What lessons do you
need to learn from them
in that lifetime?
And now there's one
overall strong lesson
again in this lifetime,
and what is it?
What is it?
Let that come to the
forefront of your mind.
Good.
Take a deep breath.
And exhale.
And we're going back.
Going higher, higher, back.
Now we're back in
the spiritual realm.
We have one more
door to go through.
See that door right
there in front of you.
Let's open up that door.
And step in.
There are the vapors.
Take a deep breath and exhale.
Descending down, down, down.
And now you find you're in
another lifetime, a very
different lifetime.
Become aware of your feet.
If there are shoes
or footwear, if any.
Become aware yet
again of the terrain.
Again, is it country?
Is it city?
Is it dry?
Is it wet?
Whatever it is, be
mindful yet again
of the environment, the
atmosphere you're in.
Is it a city?
Is it the jungle?
Is it dry?
What is it?
What time period if you can
get a time period, that's fine.
And yet again, become
mindful of the people
now who appear in that lifetime.
They come to you and see
the different characters,
the different
roles they take on.
Who are they?
What is their purpose for being
in your life at that time?
Is there a thread
that connects you
from each lifetime
with that person,
that soul, the other soul?
The various situations.
And then take a deep
breath and exhale.
Take one more deep breath
and come back into the body.
And exhale.
Coming back into the
body in this chair.
The current time,
the current lifetime.
Just one more very deep breath
and bring you totally back.
And inhale and exhale.
Feeling your feet on the floor.
Your legs and the
chair on your back.
Your shoulders and your arms.
Your chest, your stomach,
your neck and your head.
And slowly open up your
eyes and be as one.
Did you enjoy that?
Powerful, yes?
Yeah.
Really powerful.
And I've got to tell you, you
were great to work with you.
You were great to
work with because I,
being a sensitive and an
empath, I feel your energies.
And I feel when you're
there, when you go with me
and you're on the
journey with me
and you get out of your stuff.
Oh my gosh, isn't it great
when you get out of your stuff?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right?
And just be.
And you could do this
on your own, as well.
And I have CDs, of course, that
have this type of meditations.
This regression.
So I'm just interested to
hear about from you guys
some of your experiences.
Like what was a major overall
theme, lessons your soul
had to learn from
lifetime to lifetime.
I'd just be curious.
So can we do that?
OK.
Who would like to share?
Hi, sweetheart.
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: It's Terry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Terry.
Tell us about your experience.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, I couldn't
get out of this one past life
that I was in.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What was it?
>>AUDIENCE: It was
a beautiful mountain
town with a sea or
water beneath it.
And it seemed like it was
maybe during the Roman times
or something older.
I had sandals on,
it was late spring.
And my mother was
there, and I knew
that I was there to
learn simplicity in life.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was
she your mother
in that lifetime also or
was she a different person?
>>AUDIENCE: She seemed the same.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She seemed
like a mother figure?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
And it's the same one I have
today because apparently I
haven't learned that lesson
about simplicity in my life.
So I just got that
one thing that it
was just quiet and peaceful
and beautiful mountain town.
And then my mother
was there to teach me
about living simply
as a good way to go.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And in
this current lifetime,
is it all about
simplicity for you?
Did you have to
learn those lessons
about I need to be more simple?
>>AUDIENCE: It's more
about peace and simplicity
for my mother, so I think she's
still trying to teach me that.
She still wants that
in her life this time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you go back
and forth many times, too.
You learn from each other also.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
Right.
I think so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Anybody else show up in the
lifetime besides your mom?
>>AUDIENCE: I didn't
notice anybody else.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Good.
OK.
Very, very good.
Anybody else?
Over here, perhaps.
Yes, this lovely lady over here.
Hi, sweetheart.
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Cynthia.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Cynthia.
You want to share with
us about your experience.
>>AUDIENCE: I'd love to.
In all of the lifetimes there
was a theme about connection,
not being connected.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Not
being connected
to people or to yourself?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, in the
first life feeling a sense
of community
connected to the land.
It was a beautiful
island and there
was a great sense of connection.
And then the next
life I was on a boat
and just people all around me
feeling completely separate.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Interesting.
And what about another
lifetime, like the third one?
>>AUDIENCE: Another lifetime
I was different gender
and I was really connected
more to the earth.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Interesting.
And did anyone show
up in that lifetime
who's in your
current lifetime now?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'd be
interested in hearing that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
I have two friends that
are very close to me,
they're like family.
And they were on the island.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wow.
And the characteristics that
they were in that lifetime
were similar in this lifetime?
The same characteristics
or different?
>>AUDIENCE: I guess, yeah,
because they're like family.
They were family on the island.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
it's familiarity.
And they were helping your
soul in learning connectedness?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, and
they've been helping me
in this lifetime, too.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Fabulous
very, very good.
Very good.
Did anybody have
because, you know,
reincarnation-- or I should
say past life regression
many times, we also work
with fears and phobias.
And many of the
fears and phobias
we have in this current lifetime
can have a direct correlation
to a past life.
So, for instance, I was always
afraid of swimming-- water.
Always afraid of water.
I didn't start swimming until
I was 20 years old, I think.
I freaked when I
went into the water.
Heights.
Don't like heights.
Anybody here don't like heights?
Yeah.
And water stuff?
So I found out from a
past life regression
that I did that I was a
galley slave in a lifetime.
And I saw it so clearly.
And I was chained up to the
middle, this middle part
of the galley, the ship.
And all of us, all these galley
slaves were rowing, rowing
and there was some kind of
a tidal wave or wave that
came in, and we all died
and we could not escape.
And that had a
direct correlation
to my fear of
swimming and water.
And once I did that
past life regression,
and I witnessed that, I was
never afraid of water again.
So really this work,
past life regression,
you can go back to
these past lives
and you can see where your fears
are, where your phobias lie.
And sometimes the soul--
many times the soul
will carry that memory into
the soul fabric and relive it
and sometimes it
feels very, very real.
But it's just a memory
from the past life.
Interesting, eh?
It's so interesting.
So you could do a lot of work
with that with therapy work
and so forth.
So it really does help.
Anybody else want to share
an experience they had.
Yes.
And what is your first name?
Michael?
>>AUDIENCE: Michael.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Michael.
Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: I am aware
of quite a few past lives
so it was tough for the first
door for me to single one out
or allow one to come
through and stay.
But it was a recurring
one and it was definitely
Native American.
And in this area--
>>VAN PRAAGH: In the
area of Colorado?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Right in the greater
Boulder valley here.
I've been here before.
But the new part to this one is
that this young man right here
in the front row on the
end, who I just met today
for the first time,
was there with me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wow.
That's great.
Isn't that great?
You met Michael for
the first time today?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I don't
know if you felt a connection
or that you'd known
each other or something.
>>AUDIENCE: Well,
it was interesting
because we found
that we instantly
had a lot to talk about, a lot
of little things in common,
a lot of activities
and interests.
So we bonded like that
out in the hallway
just a little while ago.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's wild.
It's wild.
And your past life experience.
I'm just curious.
Because I know before
we talked about some
if that influenced it or what.
What did you have?
>>AUDIENCE: There
were three doors.
One was a square, simple door.
And I went through that and I
was on like the Corsican coast.
Sandals, I could smell the dust.
There was a cool
breeze off the water.
Hot sun.
I think my brother may
have been there with me,
I don't know if
he was my brother,
but he was still a
pain in the rear end.
[LAUGHTER]
So he could very well have been.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Isn't
that interesting.
>>AUDIENCE: And the other two,
the second one I went through
was funny because it put me
right on the deck of a ship
wearing boots.
I don't know what I
was all about there,
I didn't get a strong sense
of what I was there to learn.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You don't
know what your lesson was?
Your overall strong
lesson on that one.
>>AUDIENCE: I had a hard
time pulling that out.
The first time seemed
to be something
to do with the community
and working with others.
But what's interesting
is the middle door
was like a Japanese door.
And when I went
through there it felt
like I was in feudal Japan.
Everything was highly
structured, highly disciplined,
and I struggled with
discipline, which I tremendously
do to this day.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
that's a running theme?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, I think so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is that a
running theme in your life?
Discipline?
Dealing with discipline--
>>AUDIENCE: I think it is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --authority
figures maybe?
Are you married?
>>AUDIENCE: Bing.
Nailed it.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
so you're married.
So you get this.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Throw me
under the bus here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
really interesting.
That's really interesting.
That's great.
You know, I said before that I
felt like a teacher with you.
But I also could
see shaman with you.
A lifetime of shaman.
And I would not
be a bit surprised
in this current lifetime if
your soul has an attraction
to shamanic works, natural
healing, stones, crystals,
color, healing.
And I think that you'd
be attracted to that.
Does that sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
It does.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
it's in your soul.
So all of our past
lives are in the soul.
Its becomes a soul fabric.
I love that biblical
story about Joseph
and the coat of many colors.
And for me, symbolically
what that means,
is really the coat of many
colors of many lifetimes.
And that each lifetime makes
a certain color in the soul
fabric and we become this.
I'm just-- because I'm
very drawn to you, which
is really interesting because
there's an affinity there.
And I can just see that the
healing properties with you,
the shamanic, the teacher,
the getting the words out,
expressing.
And I'm just going
to say with you,
if I can be so bold,
to just say that-- see
now I'm going to cry.
So I know that I'm
connecting here
because I'm going to
start crying and getting
emotional which is good.
Cry.
Crying is good.
It heals the soul
I know that you've struggled
in lifetimes with authority,
like you said.
But I also know that you've
come in this lifetime
as an authority figure in
a way, and that gives you
a little bit more sensitivity
to others who are struggling.
Like kids, like I said
for being a teacher
or being around
children, you give them
a little bit more leeway.
And sometimes it's really hard
for you to be a disciplinarian.
Isn't that right?
Right.
See, now you're crying.
So I know we're connecting here.
Truth is there.
>>AUDIENCE: I feel it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You feel it.
Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: It's almost a
painful empathy and compassion,
especially for the downtrodden,
the underdog, children, dogs,
we work with rescue
organizations.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
married and you
work with rescue organizations?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Dog rescue.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Dog rescue.
I love you.
Me, too.
Great.
Wow.
And that's the compassion.
Yeah.
That's good.
Fabulous.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you, everyone.
[CLAPPING]
OK.
Great.
Thank you very much everyone
for that experience.
I hope that helped you.
And I hope it helped
you at home, as well.
And, again, it's
really interesting
to get to know your soul and why
you have certain experiences.
Why you're attracted
to certain people.
Why there's an affinity to
certain places of living,
to certain habits, certain
hobbies, certain skills
which have worked on lifetime
after lifetime after lifetime.
And you'll find maybe in this
lifetime you're an artist.
Well, in a past life
or several past lives,
you could have been an
artist or working your way
to this current lifetime
to perfect that skill.
So that's really
what it's about.
And I'd like to tune in
right now to this gentleman
standing right-- standing.
The standing man standing
right behind you.
And I'm going to give you
a message from your father.
Father passed over, correct?
May I work with you?
So would you mind standing up?
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm Brendon.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Brendon.
I have a man here who's
a father figure to you.
And he's right behind you.
And he's a man which I'm
going to describe him
to you if that's OK.
And there's a lady that's
come in to the side over here.
And he's connected with her.
So I don't know if it's
a mother of his-- there's
a female connection
here-- or a sister of his.
I'm not sure yet.
Let's work.
Is it OK if I work with you?
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I also want to tell you
that as this man comes in,
he's very structured.
He's very structured in his way.
He stands here like this.
He's very structured.
He knows what he wants.
He knows what he wants to do.
It's black and white with him.
I don't feel a
lot of spontaneity
necessarily with this gentlemen.
I feel like he likes to know
things before they happen.
It's hard sometimes with him.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I understand
before he passes over,
there must have been trouble
with walking or trouble
with his legs.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I got to tell you,
the condition that I have
here is that I can't walk.
I can't get up and get around.
>>AUDIENCE: Very much so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is this your--
are you also connected with him?
Is this your father as well?
Your father-in-law?
>>AUDIENCE: Father-in-law.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Father-in-law.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
My father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you
mind standing as well?
Would that be OK?
I think you're great.
The two of you are great.
I love you.
What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Cynthia.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Cynthia.
And you're husband and wife.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you knew
his father, didn't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
know that this man as he
comes close over here,
he wants to thank you.
He gives you a kiss
on your forehead.
And he wants to thank you
for taking care of him.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
there was some kind of a bed.
Not sure if it was a hospital
bed or some kind of a bed.
And I feel like you're
taking care of him
at one point of you're
helping to take care of him.
OK.
And is your mom still
living on the earth?
Your mom.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's
passed over, too.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
My mom has passed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
she's on this side.
And that's the lady that
I referred to earlier.
And so I just want to go-- Now,
as your dad came in earlier,
I want to tell you that
they were talk about keys
that he had.
Keys.
I don't if they were
car keys or house keys.
And I don't know if you
have them-- hold on.
Got you.
Thank you.
Did you have to have some
keys remade when he was sick?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you remember that?
He said there were three keys.
One, two, three.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And the
three keys were remade.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
And I want to talk about
everything is very organized
with your father and he
likes things organized.
He's likes his papers
in a certain way.
He likes all his possessions
You know this.
Yes?
Yes.
So we know this.
I also gotta tell you the mother
comes in very, very close.
And I got a lady around you.
Is your mother also
passed over, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I have
a lady on this side of you--
a mother figure.
First let me talk with her
and then we'll go and see her.
OK?
Now I know that this
lady, your mother
must've been there
before your father.
Is that correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
She transitioned quite a bit.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Before him, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I get her talking to me
and she's laughing, she's
laughing, she's laughing.
And I got to tell
you, she's the one
who brings the spontaneity
in the relationship.
>>AUDIENCE: Very much so.
No question.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
He's much more direct
and she's more [YELLS].
And she's fun.
She's loving.
Now would she ever love the
coupons when she was younger?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
you remember the memory
she gives me is cutting
up those coupons
and having the
coupons in a drawer.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And they
were never organized.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
she also shows me
that she had index
cards at one time.
Those 3 x 5 white index cards
for recipes or something
in a box.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
And the box is a yellow box.
A plastic yellow box.
You understand that.
That's what she shows
me in my mind's eye.
I'm very, very
aware that she likes
to keep her soup recipes,
her other recipes in there.
There's one about noodles,
there's a casserole one.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand this?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know Wednesdays
we'd like casseroles.
She used to make
casseroles on Wednesdays.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does that
makes sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, completely.
I come from a family of five and
she had to make the best of--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
because she said
Wednesdays were casserole days.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is what
she was talking about.
And she goes, oh, and they
used to love the ground beef.
I used to put the ground
beef in there and make it.
She's going through
her whole recipe here.
It was like, wow.
[LAUGHTER]
And she has apron on.
She has an apron
here but she also
puts the apron over the head.
This one.
Your mother doesn't like the
city, she's in the country.
I want to take care of things.
She really wants to clean up.
She really is a
lady who comes in
as a mother figure as far
as-- you said five kids.
That's exactly the way she
is in that lifetime taking
care of everyone.
And that's what she is.
She takes care of everyone.
Do you remember when you were
a young boy with your father,
do you remember anything
about doing something
with storm windows or screens.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I also want to
talk about who has the jams.
Did your mother have nice
jams or make stuff with fruit,
as well?
>>AUDIENCE: My grandmother did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
grandmother did.
And do you remember
going there on a Sunday,
on a Sunday or the
weekend, or having
a connection with
your grandmother
making these beautiful
pies from fruit.
Fruit pies.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Not so much the fruit pies
but rather ginger cookies that
had a fruit center.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Fine.
Perfect.
That's fine.
I want to, young lady, come
with you here if I can.
And, honey, what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Cynthia.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Cynthia.
So the information I'm
telling to your husband here,
your partner, that
you understand
many of these things?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I want to
talk about your mom, too.
Your mom is very, very proud.
Very different energy than
your mother and your father.
And I want to talk
about a sister for you.
So she's talking
about your sister.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is your sister
on the other side of life?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I have
to come with your sister.
I've got to come in
here with your sister.
And she said, she's just fine.
She's just fine.
And she said she didn't suffer.
She didn't suffer.
Because there was a whole
thing about you were suffering.
Did she suffer?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was
she in a lot of pain?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
she wasn't in pain.
Your sister, when she
comes close to me,
I feel like I'm sick
from the inside out.
I feel like I'm very
sick on the inside out.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I feel like
I just can't get healthy.
I also want to tell you
that-- I got to tell you
I feel when I'm
younger, I don't have
a good self image about myself.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
feel as if because of this
not having a good self image
and not being aware of who she
really is-- and, of
course, in this lifetime,
she probably had to learn
lessons about loving herself.
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And value.
She says valuable.
Finding myself valuable.
And she said I didn't find
myself valuable enough.
I didn't find myself
valuable enough.
Now, were there two kids.
Does she have two kids?
Who has two kids?
>>AUDIENCE: Three kids.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Two or three.
Got it.
So three kids still here?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I know there are two in one.
I don't know what that means.
Two boys and on girl,
two girls and one boy.
I don't know.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Why is
there two and one.
Is there two that
are together and that
speak with each other
and then one that's
kind of separate on their own?
>>AUDIENCE: Two live in closer
proximity and the other one
lives in a different area.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Maybe that's it.
Not sure.
But she's talking about
two and one to me.
Would you give them
my love, please?
Give them all my love.
Can I let you know that
she has perfume on?
She's wearing perfume.
She's wearing nice clothes.
And she finally said, I'm
able to wear nice clothes
because I feel I'm worth it now.
>>AUDIENCE: That's beautiful.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now, your mom
is taking good care of her.
Your mom is very-- your
mom is down to earth, too.
She's very stable.
She's really a kind
lady, your mom.
I'm going to say
a very kind woman.
And it's interesting
because before we
were talking about animals and
people taking care of animals,
and your mother's doing that.
She's telling me about she's
taking care of the animals.
I hope that makes sense to you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does it?
Did she take care
of animals here?
>>AUDIENCE: She was just a very
hugely compassionate woman.
She was a reader.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who grew up
on a farm or near a farm?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm thinking my
friend Margaret who's not here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Margaret
grew up on a farm.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm not sure.
I'm not sure about that.
>>AUDIENCE: Didn't your
mom grow up on a farm?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, my mom grew
up on a farm until she was--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
mom grew up on a farm.
>>AUDIENCE: Hello!
Hello!
It was so long
before I was here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's why your
mom was talking about the farm.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yes.
OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Got it?
Yay!
Many times-- and this is very
interesting to note this,
the way communication
works-- is they come through
with memories.
And these memories
to them, there
is no linear time of
past and present, future.
It's all kind of one experience.
So they'll go back to the
memories that were created here
in the physical Earth.
And they come through
with those memories
and they kind of create a
picture of that and that's
what they give to me.
And I just get out
whatever I get.
And many times I find the
spirit's good at giving it,
I'm pretty good at receiving
it, but the living person
is sometimes not
good at receiving it.
Or they just can't
remember and it's common.
It's common.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
You have a question.
Yes?
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Mary.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mary.
Hi, Mary.
>>AUDIENCE: Thanks.
You talked about how we
tend to travel in groups.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Group souls.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
And I'm just curious about that.
I'm one of 10 children.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
one of 10 children.
>>AUDIENCE: So I grew
up in a big environment
with a lot of extended
family, as well.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So let's
stop right there.
So if you grew up with a
family with 10 children,
odds are that you came
back with all those souls
from other past lives.
No doubt about it.
And you're working out
certain karmic obligations,
certain lessons for
each of your souls.
And not every
lifetime will there
be 10 souls that will come back.
There could be two.
There could be four.
There could be six.
It depends on the
lessons that need
to be accomplished
in this lifetime.
And sometimes you can have
it now with 10 people.
It's easier to accomplish those
lessons for the soul group.
Yes.
So in this lifetime, you
could have all come back
and be 10 members
of this family.
And all of you needed
certain experiences,
situations that
would present itself
if you came back in a
family unit in that way.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Great.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
You have a question over here?
Good.
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm Kim.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Kim.
>>AUDIENCE: Thanks.
So I have a twin sister.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: And--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let me just
interrupt you with that
because it's fabulous.
A twin.
So what does a twin mean
as far as reincarnation?
And twins, twin
souls, and so forth.
It seems that you
souls-- what are twins
are basically two
souls that have shared
many, many, many, many lifetimes
together very, very close.
It's almost like the
right and the left.
The black and the white.
The Yin and the Yang.
So things that
will happen to her
will sometimes happen
to you and vice versa.
>>AUDIENCE: All the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All the time.
And we hear about
this with twins.
And it's almost like you're
sharing one life together.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you decided
to come back to school
and go through many
classes together.
There's an affinity that
you have for each other.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
what a twin is.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
That's exactly true.
So I had done a past
life regression-- well,
we did hypnotherapy and I
went back to being in the womb
with her and then
before we incarnated.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: And what I
got was that she came in
to my mom's body and then
I was like, wait, wait,
I'm coming with you.
So then I zoomed in.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Definitely.
>>AUDIENCE: But she's very
connected to our family.
I am too, but not
as much as her.
I don't live with them.
I choose to live here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So even
though you're twins
and there are a lot of the same
lessons you're going to learn,
also you're going to
learn individual lessons.
So obviously she
has other lessons
with those family
members that she
has to evolve with
and grow through
with and learn from
and go through.
And so that's fine because
you're individual souls.
You realize that?
So you'll have
individual lessons.
But, indeed, she's learning
her own lessons with that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
Because she seems much
more connected and closer
to the immediate family.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In this lifetime.
>>AUDIENCE: In this lifetime.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
maybe another lifetime
you'll have that experience.
It's all about experiences.
I love twins.
I love the whole
connection with that.
It's such a--
>>VAN PRAAGH: We're like one.
Like one mind.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Exactly right.
Yeah.
Good.
I
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
There's a lady here that
comes from the spirit world.
And it's a mother
figure that comes to me.
And I feel like I'm drawn
to this side of the room
and I just want to bring
the lady through with more
of a description of
this lady because I
feel like I'm in my
70s when I pass over.
I feel like my death was fine.
I feel like I either
fall asleep and I pass.
My heart stops.
I don't feel that it
was a traumatic death.
I don't feel it was
something like I
was sick for a long time.
I feel like I just
quick-- silently just go.
And I'm just gonna do that.
And I feel like they find me
in the bed in the morning.
And there's a connection
with the husband.
So I'm not sure if the husband
passed to the spirit world
first, but I definitely
feel that there's
a connection that's
strong with my husband.
If he didn't pass before,
he could have passed right
after because there's
such a connection.
I also feel as if there's a
religious element to this lady.
So she was either Catholic
or a very religious lady.
And I do get-- go on.
I want to go toward, I
know I'm in the Midwest.
And I feel like I'm
going over here.
Did your mom pass?
>>AUDIENCE: My mother-in-law.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mother-in-law.
OK.
Would you mind standing up and
we can work with you maybe?
What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Lisa.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Lisa.
So, Lisa, you understand about
this lady who goes to sleep
and that's how she
passes, in her sleep.
And I feel like I'm in my 70s.
Doesn't that make sense to you?
And would it be early
70s, like 72, 73?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
I'm trying to remember.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I feel like I'm 72, 73.
And I know that
there's a connection
with a husband very close.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And was he already
on the other side of life?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
would it have been
within like a two-year period
that he'd been over there first
before her?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
A few more years than that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A few more years.
OK, because I'm
feeling around a two.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I could be wrong.
And I know that she kept his
watch after he passed away.
Because she's telling
me I kept his watch.
And either she wore
the watch sometimes,
she had his watch around, or
she looked at it all the time.
>>AUDIENCE: That could be.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I want to talk about-- Is
your father also passed over,
please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your actual--
your father, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And are the
other girls here with you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Are
the sisters here?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Where are they?
>>AUDIENCE: We're all sisters.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
You're all sisters?
All four of you, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And your
dad's coming in strong.
So he wants to
say, hi, I'm here.
And his personality--
I love his personality,
which I'll bring to
right after this lady.
I just got to give her
the floor right now.
And I'm giving you
roses from this lady.
Very much so roses.
And I want to
thank you for that.
She said to me,
they weren't sure
if they were going to
put me in the casket
or what they were going
to do with my body--
whether they were going burn
me or put me in a casket.
Do you remember
that conversation?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
And did you have it with
your husband and brothers?
>>AUDIENCE: His sisters.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And wasn't there
conversation about what
to do with the remains.
What should we do?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would you
know anyone named Joseph or Joe?
>>AUDIENCE: I have
a brother, Joe.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Joe.
Who's still alive down here.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Because your dad is coming
and talking about Joe.
Joey.
He said Joey.
OK.
Joey.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Kidney
problems, really?
So someone with kidney problems.
I'm not sure if you
have kidney problems
or someone has kidney problems.
>>AUDIENCE: My brother Jerry.
>>AUDIENCE: Our other
brother has them right now.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your brother Jerry
has kidney problems right now.
OK.
So let the lady bring
your father through.
But I want to give you roses.
I want to say thank you for
your help with her arrangements
and give my love to my
boy-- my boy, her son.
And I know that he
works very hard.
He works too hard.
And his hours just
changed in his job.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he says
he's got to calm that down.
He's got to make it
even and balanced
because he's working
himself-- and she goes,
he's going to work
himself into a grave.
Now, isn't that funny
coming from her.
>>AUDIENCE: That's exactly it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
her personality.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, it is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I got to tell you
that she is really
an interesting lady.
I will bring him through.
She likes to talk.
She says this is my time
I can express myself.
I can speak.
I got to speak.
And she said, I was blessed
to pass the way I went.
She was very blessed.
And she said-- how
interesting-- she said,
you know, we earn the way we go.
Our souls earn the
way we pass over.
>>AUDIENCE: Really.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So isn't
that interesting?
Isn't that interesting?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'd
heard that before, as well.
So I think if you do good
work, you do the best you can,
and maybe that's your
destiny of your soul
to pass the way you pass.
I do believe that's true.
I really do.
I'm going to ask all
four of you to stand,
which is a first time on this
show with one microphone.
[LAUGHTER]
I want to go really to
this lady at the end.
You're all sisters, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because your dad wants
to come in very strongly.
And he's with a grandmother.
He's with a mother over here.
He also has a sister
over here-- his sister.
And I gotta tell you about that.
I want to talk about--
who was the Irish?
Some Irish in the background
somewhere, please.
And Polish or something.
>>AUDIENCE: I have an
aunt that's Polish.
>>VAN PRAAGH: An
OK.
Good.
And would you know Tommy or Tom?
That name?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, we have a
cousin Tommy who is deceased.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Because I want to give love
from a Thomas or Tommy.
And he's with your dad.
And there's someone
named Robert.
Someone know who that is?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, we
had grandfather Robert.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Grandfather Robert.
Thank you very
much, here as well.
And I know that I want
to go to the lake.
I want to be around a lake.
And your dad's
showing me the lake.
OK?
Your dad is giving me a
memory of going to the lake.
And does that
makes sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
We went to the lake a
lot when we were kids.
A lake in Wisconsin
and we'd rent cottages
with our aunts and
uncles, cousins.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So a
summertime lake and it
was a summertime experience.
And the memory he
gives me is this lake.
And the family being
around the lake
and having a barbecue
and a good time
and the corn dogs and
that sort of a thing.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
And many cousins running around.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
And bicycles he
shows me, as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Bicycles
he shows me, as well.
OK.
I'm going to pass the
microphone on to this,
well this lady right here.
You're the sister.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Lynn.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Lynn.
OK.
And your mom is still alive?
Is she still alive, please?
OK.
Because I know that your father
wants to give love to her.
And I know that her eyes, I
know there's a glasses recently.
Her eyes were being affected.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
And just say yes if you get it!
And no if you don't.
So I know that there's
either cataracts something
with your mother because your
father's telling me that.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: She just
finished cataract surgery.
Both eyes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So you know that he is around
and that the spirit people
are around helping
that situation.
And we all should know that.
That the spirit world
is always around us
to help us to infuse
healing and love.
Yes?
Your father is a very funny man.
He has a real personality.
And he's, ah, she doesn't
want to see certain things.
He liked to read the
funnies, he said.
He liked to read
the funny papers.
And he's using the
term funny papers.
Liked to read the funny papers.
And he's laughing a lot.
I don't know why but he tells
me has a full head of hair.
He has a full head of hair.
Now he has a full head of hair.
And he said, your mother
has a wedding photo
on the top of the
dresser in the bedroom.
There's a photo,
black and white--
>>AUDIENCE: Just right on her
TV stand right where she lives.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Right
in front of her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And it's
black and white, isn't it?
>>AUDIENCE: Black and white.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And it's
like a white veil dress
thing going down here.
Vail.
Like that.
And I know that
he's a handsome man
and she's a good looking lady.
And I got to tell you that is
what he looks like right now.
>>AUDIENCE: Good.
That's what they just said.
Their caretaker just told
her you look like movie stars
in that picture in
that wedding photo.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
He was very handsome.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He is.
He is very handsome.
Isn't it interesting
when people pass over
in the world of spirit, they're
more real and more alive
than we give them credit for.
And sometimes they seem to be
a figment of our imagination.
And they're not.
They're very, very real.
And I got to tell you that I
get your dad wanting to sit down
in the chair and
putting his feet up.
OK?
And I got to tell
you that I don't
know why, but I'm with mom
and I'm watching television
or I'm in a room there with her.
So where your mom
currently is right now,
is there another chair close
by her couch right there?
>>AUDIENCE: She's in an
assisted living center.
So she sits on a chair
and watches television
all the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
Perfect.
Is there another
chair in that room?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
We just scoot it close.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great, because
he sits in that chair with her
when she watches television.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you
please let her know that.
Didn't you just move the photos
that you put in her room?
You just put some new photos
in the room, didn't you?
You just put some family photos
into her room, didn't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
I printed them out and got
them all arranged for her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just
recently didn't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Just within
the last few years.
She just moved in.
Or another one.
We've added a couple.
Yes.
That's right, we have.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You must
have added some recently.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
You did.
You added that one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he said recently.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Two of them.
We just added two more.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, and you
went through her drawers.
You went through her drawers.
You're changing things.
You're opening the drawers
where she's in assisted living.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
opening up those drawers.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: This
must have been recent
because he's showing me this.
>>AUDIENCE: I do that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You just
did that didn't you?
You just reorganized those
drawers for your mom?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
A couple days ago.
Yeah.
Routinely.
I'm the organized one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I can tell that.
Yes.
And your father's like, oh.
But he's watching you do that.
He's watching you do that.
And he said, she has
things in those drawers
that she doesn't need.
And you found that.
And I know that there must
have been a little shopping
bag that you had and you took
some stuff out of the drawer
and you're putting it in
a bag to take it away.
Mom doesn't need that.
>>AUDIENCE: I do
that all the time.
I do that a couple times a week.
I go declutter.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
But what he shows
me sweetheart is
he's showing me a brown paper
bag with the little handles
on it.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's kind
of the one he's showing me.
>>AUDIENCE: I just pulled
one of those-- Yeah.
She lives in a small space so
I just always declutter, bring
things home, and rearrange.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But you
understand that brown paper bag
that he's talking
about with the handles?
That's what he's telling me.
Now he's talking
to me about there
must have been three or
four siblings of his?
Is that right?
OK.
Was there three or four?
>>AUDIENCE: He had
three siblings total.
>>AUDIENCE: They're all gone.
>>VAN PRAAGH: They're all gone.
>>AUDIENCE: But there
was four of them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So there was
four of them all together.
So he's with all of them.
He wants me to tell you that.
Now, I know that
he's at the shore.
I know that he likes the lake.
But I know that I like
to go to the shore.
Can you talk about the shore?
>>AUDIENCE: Lake Michigan.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Lake Michigan.
OK.
And it's Chicago.
Yes?
Yes.
And I know we're
outside Chicago.
We're outside Chicago.
>>AUDIENCE: Wisconsin Dells.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wisconsin Dells.
OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Shell Lake.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And didn't he like
ever go fishing at one point?
>>AUDIENCE: All the time.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
I want to go fishing.
And you know I'm in
heaven if I'm fishing.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
And I know that
Christmas time was
a big tradition in the family.
I'm very aware
that your dad, he's
really big about this with
a manger and the figurines.
>>AUDIENCE: He made--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hey,
don't tell me.
I know he built the manger?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>AUDIENCE: He built us all a
manger before he passed away.
>>AUDIENCE: Each child has one.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He built you all
a manger before he passed away?
>>AUDIENCE: The last
Christmas he was alive,
he made us all mangers,
little mangers.
And got us all the
characters and gave us
to each one of us children.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wow.
Wow.
That's great.
Ah, I'm sorry.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Christmas was big.
Dad was really big on Christmas.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Can
I also tell you
that he doesn't like the needles
in the fingers and the blood
being drawn.
Something about the blood
being drawn before he passes.
And he hates it.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because that happened, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
He was on chemo.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He was on chemo.
I know that he told here
about fresh vegetables.
I'm being shown a fresh diet.
And I know someone
of you four, I'm
not sure which one-- was it you?
Who either went and got
new fresh vegetables
and changing your diet,
putting more organic stuff
in there and fruits
and vegetables.
Does that make sense?
When did you do that?
Just last week or something?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
I've been trying to eat
healthier and lose weight.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Did you just recently
get, he's showing me
some kind of a
blender or a mixer?
A brand new one.
Correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I know
with that blender, that mixer,
that I can definitely put the
vegetables, the fruits in there
and make smoothies and
that sort of thing.
And green stuff
and he's like, eh.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's him.
Ew.
>>AUDIENCE: That's exactly it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I just got to tell you that
he watches over all of you
and I know that there's
a cross with him.
So I know he was Catholic.
I know that.
But I have a cross around
my neck, a gold cross.
And he must've been in a coffin.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He had to be.
He had to be.
I see flowers everywhere
but I see them--
I don't know if he had grey
suit on with a red tie?
>>AUDIENCE: It was a grey suit.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was it a
red tie and a grey suit?
>>AUDIENCE: I think so.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It was like a
reddish, burgundy type of tie.
>>AUDIENCE: That
sounds familiar.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because that's what
I'm seeing here.
And I have a cross.
And I know that I'm in rosaries.
And I know the rosaries
are a big deal.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
got to tell you that.
And that Joseph person,
who was that again?
>>AUDIENCE: My brother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because he puts
something in the coffin.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Joseph put
something in the coffin.
And I like the Cubs.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah!
Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But
there's something
in that coffin or something
in that thing about the Cubs
as well.
>>AUDIENCE: That could be.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I just want to
tell you, you kids do the best.
I love you kids.
Go to go.
Love you kids.
And he whistles to you.
He whistles.
He had a certain whistle.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'll
leave it at that.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
You can applaud
the spirit world.
That's fine.
[APPLAUSE]
Well, I want to thank everyone
here today and at home also.
This is a reminder.
It's a reminder to your
soul that indeed we
are eternal beings.
We are souls having a human
experience, not the other way
around.
And we come back in many, many
lifetimes to perfect our souls.
And the number one way
that we can perfect--
and I'm crying
because it's so true
and I'm feeling it-- the number
one way to perfect and get it
an A on all your
lessons is love.
Demonstrate and use
love as best as you can.
And I assure you, you'll go
right to the head of the class.
Thank you all very
much for being here.
Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you, everyone.
Love and light.
[MUSIC PLAYING]